# SentithonHackathon
Sentiment analysis
Over 4.59 billion people used social media worldwide in 2022; by 2027, this number is expected to reach nearly six billion (see Figure 1).1 Social media platforms are important sources of data, because the data generated by users on social media channels is readily available to companies. Uses of social media data includes research and marketing, among others. 

In order to analyze social media data, data extraction is necessary. Web scraping tools help organizations extract data  from multiple social media platforms.

In this research, we will dive into each aspect of social media scraping, including what it is, why it matters, its benefits, legality, tools for social media scraping and types of data that can be collected from top social networks.

Figure 1: Global social media user population from 2017 to 2027

Number of social media users worldwide from 2017 to 2027. 
Source: Statista
What is social media scraping?
Social media scraping is a process of automatically extracting data from social media platforms including:

Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
What is the best way to scrape social media platforms?
1. Web scraping tools
You can use automated data collectors to extract data from social media platforms. Web scraping tools, for example, enable businesses to automatically collect social media data. The following are a few examples of how web scrapers are used in various industries:

Restaurants utilize web scraping tools to track and extract social media data such as menu, delivery items to gain insight into their products and services.
Web scrapers enable businesses in the travel industry to extract hotel and tourism data from social media platforms by using specific keywords and hashtags.
You can either:

Build your own scrapers using web scraping libraries (in-house web scrapers).
Utilize an open source web scraper.
Use one of the following off-the-shelf web scrapers (see Figure 2).
Low/no code web scrapers
Cloud web scrapers
Browser extensions web scrapers
Figure 2: Off-the-shelf web scraping solutions

Companies can either build their own scrapers using web scraping libraries or use off-the-shelf scrapers such as low/no code web scrapers to extract data.
2. Web scraping APIs
Web scraping APIs are an alternative method for extracting data from social media platforms. It enables clients to access and extract data from web sources by using an API call. You can utilize a commercial web scraping API solution or a third-party scraper API such as Twitter API, Instagram API, etc.

Code-based web scraping solutions such as scraping APIs allow users to customize scrapers based on their specific business requirements. You can outsource your web scraping infrastructure if you lack the programming skills to build the web scraping code environment and if cost is not your main concern.

3. Web scraping with RPA
Robotic Process Automation (RPA) web scraping automates data collection tasks and reduces the workload on the web scraper. Businesses can use RPA bots to:

Eliminate manual data entry and minimize the risk of human error.
Scrape a large quantity of data and accelerate data collection processes.
Extract image and video data. Some web scrapers only extract the image URL and do not extract visual data such as images, videos, GIFs, etc.
Top 3 business outcomes of scraped social media data 
1. Have a customer-centric strategy
Businesses need dynamic data in order to be customer-centric. Data scraped from social media channels provides dynamic information about individuals and is updated on a regular basis as new information becomes available.

Customers use social media platforms to express their preferences, complaints, and expectations regarding products. A data scraper can collect review data from websites and social networks. It provides companies with an organic approach to their services and products.

Real life example: Spotify has built a Twitter account, SpotifyCares, to monitor customers’ brand-related tweets and respond to them. (see Figure 3). Twitter data enables Spotify  to:

Better understand the concerns and expectations of its customers.
Uncover questions about the company’s services on Twitter.
Develop relationships with potential customers.
Improve their customer service and social listening strategy.
Figure 3: Example of customer interaction on Twitter

social media scraping for customer services
2. Keep up with the latest trends
Market changes may have an impact on your customers’ expectations for your products and services. You need to extract current market data to understand customer preferences and expectations. Social media accounts, blogs, wikis, and other websites are all important places to look for information about what your competitors are up to and how they’re performing. 

For example, customers’ feedback on their products provides insight into the types of techniques that are successful for them. Social media scraping bots automatically extract data and provide you with structured data that is ready to be analyzed. It enables businesses to update their strategies, and gain a better understanding of market trends.

Sponsored

Bright Data’s Data Collector extracts data from any public website on a large scale. You can choose the time lags, such as real-time or scheduled. It cleans, synthesizes, and structures the data from unstructured websites. The data is delivered as JSON, CSV, HTML, or Microsoft Excel. 


Real-life example: Brandwatch used Twitter data for social listening and keyword monitoring.2 The company used social media data to help Co-op, one of the largest food retailers in the UK, with its Twitter marketing campaigns.

The Co-op had difficulty gaining:

Real-time social insights
Tracking their marketing campaigns
Ensuring their success. 
Brandwatch used Twitter data to provide Co-op with real-time insight into brand mentions and trending conversations about its competitors. With Twitter data, the company’s campaign reached 23.5 million people and generated 75 million impressions.

3. Conduct sentiment analysis
Scraped social media data enables brands to identify the positive/negative words describing their products and services (see Figure 4). For instance, you can collect a specific number of tweets that contain your brand’s specific keyword or hashtag using a data collection tool or API solution. 

Twitter’s own API allows users  to access and collect Twitter data, such as tweets, media, number of users, etc. Then, you can analyze the sentiment of the collected tweet to measure the brand’s negative, neutral, or positive public perception. However, you must be aware of fake product reviews and content generated by bots to ensure the accuracy of your collected data.

Figure 4: Words used to describe products & services based on an analysis of customer reviews

Social media scraping allows brands to analyze customer reviews for sentiment.
Source: AIMultiple
Real-life example:

Mathison is a DEI (diversity, equity, and inclusion) platform that helps businesses with their hiring processes. To create a unified talent pool, the company collects candidate data from various web sources such as recruitment websites and social media platforms such as LinkedIn.

Mathison used Bright Data’s data collector to gather massive amounts of candidate public data from web sources like LinkedIn. It streamlined data collection and reduced the time required to collect candidate profile information manually (see Figure 5).

Figure 5: Case study of web scraping for a centralized talent network for recruiters

web scraping case study in recruitment
Legality & types of data that can be collected from social networks
Scraping publicly available data is legal; there are no laws or regulations prohibiting it. However, this doesn’t imply that you can scrape everything. Private information and copyrighted content are both protected by law.

If you wish to scrape private data you should read the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Facebook
With 2.89 billion monthly active users, Facebook is the largest social networks in the world (see Figure 6). 3 Scraping Facebook data is legal as of 2023. However, scraping private content without permission and selling it to a third party for a profit without the user’s consent is not permitted.

You can scrape information that is publicly available, such as:

Username, profile URL, profile photo URL, following and followers information, likes and interest themes, and so on are all included in profiles.
Posts include information such as the date, location, number of likes, views, and comments, as well as text and media URLs.
Figure 6: Most popular social media platforms worldwide

Facebook, with 2.89 billion monthly active users, is the world's largest social network.
Source: Semrush
Twitter 
Twitter is just another trove of data that can be utilized to track brand sentiment and gauge client satisfaction. Twitter’s APIs provide companies with free access to Twitter data. To use the Twitter API, you must first register.

The most significant benefit of the API is that, because it is supported by Twitter, there is no fear of being blocked as long as you pull data in accordance with their API requirements. However, the API has some limits; it can only scrape 18,000 tweets per 15-minute window.

Scraping publicly accessible Twitter data is typically legal, but you need to check whether the content is crawlable or not with the robots.txt file. It provides or denies access to URLs and specific content on a website. Data that can be collected from Twitter include:

Keywords / hashtags: By searching your brand hashtags, location-specific hashtags, and audience-specific hashtags, you can extract useful data for your business.
Tweets: You can get a list of all the tweets of specified profiles.
Profiles: you can collect all the information about a Twitter user’s public account such as their bio, numbers of followers & following.
To learn more about twitter web scraping, read our comprehensive article on the topic.

Data Collector tool enables organizations to crawl and scrape publicly available data such as Twitter profiles (see figure 7), URLs, tweets, and retweets from Twitter in real-time.

Figure 7: It is the output of  “https://twitter.com/billieeilish” URL.  Data Collector uses Billie Eilish’s Twitter profile to extract data such as her followers, following, and bio & post information.

The image shows the the output of  
Source: Bright Data
YouTube
It is legal to scrape data from YouTube so long as you do not interfere with the website’s operations and do not collect personally identifiable information (PII). According to the research, 85% of SMBs have used YouTube data to reach new audiences and grow their customer base.4 The data listed below can be extracted from YouTube:

Video title and description
Comments on videos
Video ID
Number of views and likes
Check out our guide to scraping YouTube data to learn more about its legality, use cases, and best practices.

Figure 8: The process of data extraction from YouTube

The image explains each step for scraping YouTube data.
Instagram
Instagram gives businesses and professionals access to their posts and comments on them. You can automatically extract public data from Instagram profiles and hashtags without any blocking. A scraper bot enables organizations to scrape and extract data including:  

Profiles: scraper bot extracts information such as posts, followers & following, and external URLs.
Comments: Post date,  post date, post URL, comments, likes.
Hashtags: Post URL, media URL, post author ID.
Further reading on web scraping:
3 Ways to Gain Competitive Edge with Amazon Data (With Tips)
The Ultimate Guide to Review Scraping : How-to & Best Practices
Top 5 Web Scraping Case Studies & Success Stories
Download our whitepaper on web scraping if you want to learn more about it:

Get Web Scraping Whitepaper

Check out our data-driven list of web scrapers for help choosing the right tool, and get in touch with us:

Find the Right Vendors

Number of social media users worldwide from 2017 to 2027 (June 2022). Statista. Retrieved 10 January, 2023.
“Four ways Brandwatch and Co-op use Twitter across different time frames“. Twitter. Retrieved 8 January, 2023.
“Most popular social networks worldwide-2022“. Statista. Retrieved 8 January, 2023.
The State of The Creator Economy (2021). Oxford Economics. Retrieved 8 January, 2023.


Share on LinkedInShare on Twitter
Gulbahar Karatas
Gülbahar is an industry analyst of AIMultiple. She received her bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Dokuz Eylül University.


RELATED RESEARCH
Web scraping enables businesses automatically extract food and restaurant data from food ordering websites.
Web Scraping
TOP 5 WEB SCRAPING USE CASES IN THE FOOD INDUSTRY IN 2023

Web Scraping , Proxy
DATACENTER VS. RESIDENTIAL PROXIES: WHICH TO CHOOSE?

Web Scraping , API
WEB SCRAPING APIS: HOW-TO, CAPABILITIES & TOP 10 TOOLS IN 2023
Leave a Reply
YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS WILL NOT BE PUBLISHED. REQUIRED FIELDS ARE MARKED *

Comment *
Name Surname
 
E-mail Address
 

POST COMME
“How can I extract complete social media data?” — This question probably concerns most social media consulting firms. You probably scour pages of Google Search results to find the perfect extraction solution. Let’s cut to the chase and dive in.

A social media extraction tool is intelligence software to get web data from social media networks automatically. Automacy is what makes social media data extraction tools shine. They can cut the time on developing web crawlers or searching mentions. Data sensitive jobs like PR and marketers, therefore, can fine-tune their strategy in a matter of days upon extracted data.

However, each social media extraction tool has its own pros and cons. Big and small businesses have different struggles. And business in each field has its unique specification pertaining to software to dissolve the problems at stake. Whereas, most people are uncertain about what kind of tool they want. At this point, we should ask ourselves the question not “how” but “what problem you intend to solve”.

Once you clear the question, the next step is to find the right tool that fits your needs.

Take charge with your best face forward | Data Driven Investor
Social media marketing starts with the customer in mind. Advertising, feedback and managing complaints mesh together to…
www.datadriveninvestor.com

Octoparse
It stands out as the most leading data extraction software in the market, best known for voluminous web data extraction from a wide range of sources. Octoparse succeeds where many extraction tools fail at identifying posts, comments, images, handlers, etc, automatically. You can just click on the target element, it will guide you to extract target data. In addition, it has social media extraction templates which allow us to get data instantly without any task configuration. This is the boon feature for those who don’t want to get their hands-on coding.

Pros: Abundant of YouTube video tutorials, instant extraction templates, precise extraction, advanced anti-blocking technology. Name it, it has more than we could expect. Provide a wide range of service to fit big or small extraction requirements. (Add features that it has IP rotation and resolves being blocked)

Cons: Doesn’t support Mac OS X; Can’t extract PDF;


Parsehub
Just like most modern data extraction tools, Parsehub can handle dynamic and complex websites like javascript, Ajax, cookies and infinite scrolling. Better yet, it has no restraint to work on any operating system including Mac OS X, Windows and Linux. It even provides browser-extension to launch your scraping task instantly.

Pros: Supports more systems. User-friendly interface.

Cons: Pricey plan up from $149 per month. The free plan has very limited scraping quotes.


Apify
If you have a strong coding skill set and look for an extraction tool assisting you to accomplish a robotic process, you should try Apify. The computing platform makes it easy to develop and run the program. It doesn’t have a click-and-extraction function like most intuitive scrapers do, but you can write JavaScript to extract data.

Pros: A nice computing platform for developers to build and share; Provide seamless integration with other tools.

Cons: Apify charges quite expensive for its services. For people who lack programming skills, it can be challenging. Must save data in time as they have a short period of data retention.


Mozenda
Mozenda is a cloud-based data extraction service provider. What makes it unique is that it allows you to export extracted social media data to a cloud storage provider like Amazon S3, Microsoft Azure and dropbox. It allows you to automate the process via integration with online sources and tools. You can extract text, image, and PDF from the web pages which most web scrapers have difficulty to accomplish.

Pros: Mozenda has enterprise-grade service and allows for on-premise hosting.

Cons: Once more advance scraping tasks involved, more custom services are expected to call in.


Import.io
Import.io provides end-to-end solutions for enterprise-grade customers from a wide spectrum of fields. It helps you to aggregates reviews from multiple web sources or monitor SEO efforts at ease. It has a user-friendly interface is also very easy to master without any code. Web scraping beginners may appreciate its point-and-click features.

Pros: both individual and big enterprise can avail from its cutting-edge technology to fetch web data; no limitation on the operation system.

Cons: Limited plan options. It can quickly get expensive when you reach the scraping limite.


Okay, What about Legal Issue?
Keep in mind that there is legal compliance with web data extraction, especially when it comes to social media contents. The most notorious Facebook vs. Cambridge Analytica case has already blown the whistle for us that social media data underlie privacy concerns. That makes web data extraction to carry greater legal responsibility. Before any further extraction steps are made, there are 4 things you should be aware of :

Facebook doesn’t allow any scraper, according to its robots.txt file.
Robot.txt specifies rules whether a bot can conduct scraping behavior on its website. Even though there is no law determining its legal effect, but it can be relevant in legal cases. Thus, it is necessary to respect robot.txt

Obtain written permission.
It would be nice if you can email the website owner and ask for permission. An extreme case would be permanently blocked.

Extract data at a reasonable speed.
Web data extraction tools fetch data at a very fast speed. Most websites defend against aggressive requests by blocking out robotic acts. In this case, you may need to slow down your extraction speed to undercover your suspicious behaviour.

Be respectful with the extracted data.
Social media data is privacy matters. Keep your files as safe as possible.

Apart from legal ramifications, it’s not always easy to get the data you want. As social media websites are highly dynamic and updated frequently, it is necessary to maintain the crawler on a regular basis to ensure the uninterrupted flow of data stream. In this case, for a business of any sizes, I advise you to leverage data extraction service to do the heavy lift as you can focus more time on what you do best.

Originally published at http://www.dataextraction.io on May 2, 2020.


Social Media Data
Web Data Extraction
Web Scraping
Data Scraping
Data Extraction
83




83


More from DataDrivenInvestor
Follow
empowerment through data, knowledge, and expertise. subscribe to DDIntel at https://ddintel.datadriveninvestor.com

Daniel G. Jennings
Daniel G. Jennings

·May 2, 2020


Member-only

Can Lionsgate and Movies Survive Coronavirus? — Market Mad House
Examining Lionsgate Entertainment Corp (NYSE: LGF.A) could help answer the question can movies survive coronavirus? Lionsgate (NYSE: LGF.B) is an anachronism because its main business is movie and TV production. That makes Lionsgate an odd duck in an entertainment industry where conglomerates with many businesses own most studios. Disney (NYSE…

Movies
5 min read

Can Lionsgate and Movies Survive Coronavirus? — Market Mad House
Share your ideas with millions of readers.

Write on Medium
Crypto Beat
Crypto Beat

·May 2, 2020


Member-only

Business Models of a Digital Era
The saying of “digital transformation” has received a high perception in the discussion about main drivers for change of a company’s recent status quo. May it be the new generation of young, digital natives or the cyclic waves in the economy, also called Kondratiev waves, behaviors like media consumption or…

Business
7 min read

Business Models of a Digital Era
Kaki Okumura
Kaki Okumura

·May 2, 2020


Member-only

Why COVID-19 Hit the Western World So Much Harder
A theory on why Japan is still an outlier — I would like to preface by stating that I am in no way a health professional or expert on diseases, but there’s something very curious going on in Japan. Despite lack of a lockdown — the day-to-day activities in Japan have maintained relative normalcy — and being late to closing…

Health
8 min read

Why COVID-19 Hit the Western World So Much Harder
Phil Rossi
Phil Rossi

·May 2, 2020


Member-only

Making Customer Service A Disruptor
Customer Service As An Outlier, Not An Outpost In our age of innovation, change, and disruption, it’s hard to imagine customer service at the forefront, much less a corporate tool and change agent. But that is exactly what Lexus incorporated when breaking into the luxury auto market. The big boys…

Business
4 min read

Making Customer Service A Disruptor
Technoids Blog
Technoids Blog

·May 2, 2020


Member-only

Edge AI - Computer vision on the edge - Part 1/2
Carsten Moenning, Ph.D. Whenever network connectivity is not available, or network latency is insufficient, or there is a need for local processing due to regulatory, privacy and security concerns, or, indeed, a combination of all of these aspects is given, today’s standard cloud-based AI approach isn’t an option. Edge AI…

Raspberry Pi
10 min read

Edge AI - Computer vision on the edge
Read more from DataDrivenInvestor
Recommended from Medium
Tony Tsoi
Tony Tsoi

Application of Monte Carlo Simulation in Financial Forecasting

Sean Moore Gonzalez
Sean Moore Gonzalez

A Kudos Network Application

Pandemoniium
Pandemoniium

Top 3 Online Resources That May Come In Handy
Jorge Robinat
Jorge Robinat

in

Analytics Vidhya

Improving meteorological and ocean models with Machine Learning

Will Norris
Will Norris

in

Towards Data Scien
